back to another episode of Between Sermons.
I'm your host, Brent, and I am excited for this conversation because we're taking the monologue from Sunday, turning it into dialogue, getting to actually talk with some friends about the gospel according to Luke.
And we got to finish off chapter one on Sunday, so we're going to dig into all of that.
And in order to do that, we are back to a normal flow.
Last week was weird.
I gotta admit.
It was the man show last week.
It was so cool.
I watched it.
Because Taisha was like, I'm done.
I'm out.
This is too much.
I needed a sabbatical.
A sabbatical.
That's a weird word.
I needed a sabbatical.
I need some rest.
But you guys did good.
I saw the episode.
It was good.
We just talked.
It was just three dudes talking Bible.
I love it.
incorporate that and call it like DC man cave or something.
Okay.
That'll be her guide.
So your creative energies.
Okay, yeah.
And I will produce it and sit right over there and watch from the back.
You know, the moment you say that though, every woman watching this right now is gonna go, what about us?
Right.
Saul has to do what?
Well, so she wants to do one.
So maybe this is the season to transition into that.
See, now you, now you put it out there.
Okay, I know, I know.
This is just all speculation.
On Sunday, people are gonna be like, Hey, so when is the, I know.
When is that going to start?
We're talking in real time.
We're sorry, guys.
So let's introduce our guest today.
Hi, Ari.
Well, we have Ari with us today.
How are you?
I'm good.
You are not.
You're an OG to the podcast.
Yes.
It's been a while, but happy to be back.
Yeah.
How are you feeling, new mommy?
Tired, but good.
Yes.
Good.
Well, we're so glad to have you.
We have good conversations when you're here.
Yes.
I'm excited.
You excited?
Always.
Okay.
So excited.
I don't believe it.
But anyway, here's the problem.
So for two weeks in a row now, you scheduled this recording to take place right after our sermon planning.
So like my head is just engrossed in Luke chapter two.
I get it.
But then we're sitting here to talk about Luke chapter one.
And my brain is trying to like
Yeah, I get it.
I'm still back.
It's not bad.
It's not math very well.
What's so funny is this morning I got up and I wanted to reread the mess, the Bible verses.
And I was reading chapter three and I was like, this is not where we are.
Because I was thinking of weeks like it was just like week one, week two, week three.
I was just on three.
I was way off.
Way off.
I should be going.
We're getting to Luke three in three weeks.
That's insane.
Well, in a good way because we're breaking out every passage.
But man, how are you enjoying the Luke series so far?
I love it.
I think that this is it's funny how like I've been preaching for 20 years now.
OK. And verse by verse was never a part of that.
Like I even in my younger years, I looked at churches that were just doing a verse by verse.
I'm like.
That's not a sermon.
That's a Bible study.
Like, what are you doing?
It's so boring.
Like, literally, and here I am 20 years later going, man, this is like my favorite style of preaching now.
I just want to do this all the time.
Wow.
So we are, because I'm in charge.
Right.
It's that maturing.
You're like, no, we should do this.
And that geek nerd out thing you'd be doing mixed with your love for scripture.
Yeah, it's funny because the reason why I didn't like it before is I was like, no, I want the Holy Spirit to be able to like, I don't want to be stuck to just
going through something like I want to be able to speak on whatever God has put on my heart.
Yeah.
And I feel like Holy Spirit still allowing me to do that.
But there's some guardrails of like it's this is the text.
Yeah.
You've been doing a fantastic job at bringing things out that I wouldn't have necessarily got if I just read Luke.
So yeah.
I think that's just the reality of study versus reading.
When you take the time to actually study, you'll discover things.
If you're reading something, not to spoil it, but in two weeks, Jason is teaching us the second half of Luke chapter two, and there's a phrase that comes up that I told him in the message, I'm like, man, lean into that because
Like so many people are just going to read past that phrase and it's going to have no significance.
It's going to mean nothing to them.
But there's significance to it.
It actually has Old Testament reference.
Like it's pull that out.
Let them see how cool this is.
Yeah, that's cool.
So how about you?
How are you enjoying Luke?
I like it.
I think it's definitely relevant to me right now because just having had a baby, just seeing the like how the Lord prepared Mary and Elizabeth for it and then like going through it and what it was.
And so I can definitely like relate there.
And yeah, it's been cool.
Yes, ma'am.
Well, let's stay in that vein.
I know we like to start off by talking about what the message really stood out to you in that message.
So what was something that stood out to you in Sunday's message?
The song of praise for sure.
I mean, you read it.
but it doesn't necessarily until you like put it in the context of like this is a song it doesn't read like a song but like it just reads like a oh she's praising the lord but like when you put it in like
the context of a song is really cool.
So I think that was something new for me, having read the chapter so many different times.
Another thing that I was thinking about, I felt like once I got to the end, and you know, it talks about like how they were in awe because of what the Lord did for Zachariah and Elizabeth.
And I'm like, thinking about what's coming up
How could they not stay at all?
If you knew what happened, how could you not stay at all?
But I know that people forget.
Time moves on.
It becomes a little less important.
It's like 30 years later.
I know, but it's like.
you should have remembered what God did.
So yeah, those were some things that were sticking out, but I think for me the song of praise and just overall just that bond between the women of being able to see what God said he would do in their lives and like do it together, right?
Even just how Mary spent the three months with Elizabeth.
I think that's really important because even just thinking about like the first trimester of how hard it is or even just the transition into being pregnant and being like getting
in the mindset of being a mother, like having somebody to walk with you, I think is really cool.
So that's where I was with it.
Well, that was another level of bringing that intimacy, pregnancy moment.
Like I didn't think about that the first three months.
You're sick a lot.
And, okay.
But before we jump in any deeper, give us a quick synopsis of Luke, this chapter.
Of all of Luke?
No, I'm just saying this chapter.
I can't just say Luke.
The last 40 chapters.
Yes, the last.
Yes, verses that we just you just okay.
So just just the second half of Luke.
So second half of chapter one is basically we ended the first half with the angel going to Mary saying you're gonna have a child through the power of the Holy Spirit.
The your cousin who was barren is now pregnant.
She's the sign.
So we pick up with Mary running off to go see the sign.
It says she went with haste.
And that's, she needs the community, right?
She needs that relational piece.
She needs to be able to process what's going on.
She also needs that confirmation.
Like, okay, you said she's pregnant.
I know she couldn't get pregnant.
I'm gonna go see.
Oh yeah, she's pregnant.
So like the sign was there.
So she goes and visits Elizabeth.
Elizabeth has an amazing response to
to marry to the child within her where she declares this is my Lord like who am I that my Lord the mother of my Lord would come visit me and it's like That that that your cousin's child is not your Lord.
Yeah in normal circumstances, right?
Like but in this case it is and it's the same word used for The divine name of God so in the original Hebrew Old Testament we see the word Yahweh and
The Greek translation of the Old Testament called the Septuagint is we get that word instead of Yahweh, we get Kyrios, which is what Elizabeth uses, both to describe the baby.
And then another verse later, she uses to describe God who sends the angel.
And so it's like this really cool divine moment taking place.
So she's overjoyed at this child within her, John is overjoyed.
He leaps with joy, it says, which is again, it's like over and over again in this
portion, we see things that were said in the first half of the chapter are being fulfilled in the second half of this chapter.
It's like, God said it, now God's doing it.
And then some of it is even stuff that God said in the Old Testament that now he's fulfilling and doing now.
So it's really cool.
So Elizabeth has this moment, John has this moment, Mary has her moment.
She sings a song, which is, it's called the Magnificat, which is based on, oh, magnify the Lord.
And so she magnifies God through this song.
where she's just drawing attention to how great God is.
And then she gives us her four.
Like this is why I'm praising God because of who he is and because of what he does.
And so she sings this whole song and then it says she hangs out with Elizabeth for the rest of her pregnancy, basically like three months.
John is delivered.
And we don't necessarily know if Mary stayed past delivery or right before delivery, but at some point, Mary goes back home to do her thing.
And so then we have the actual birth of John, bunch of people rejoicing, celebrating how awesome this is, which again is fulfillment of what the angel said would happen.
And then we have the whole naming moment happen, which is actually kind of funny, like the angel told Zechariah, his name is going to be John, his name is John.
And then they get to Elizabeth and assuming John has communicated that to Elizabeth somehow.
And so they ask Elizabeth, what are you going to name them?
And she's like, we're naming them John.
And they're like, that's not even a good name.
Like, where'd you pick that?
No one's in your family named John.
They only got John.
No offense to any Johns out there.
It's a super common name now.
But at that point, they're like, John, where's that coming from?
So they try and get Zechariah to put her in place.
He writes it like, great.
Get your woman.
John.
She said it.
The angel said it.
I'm saying it.
His name is John.
It's like this big like faith moment.
And there's like it's almost like there's an unlocking.
Yeah.
In that moment.
Because what he does right after that is he speaks.
And so like his punishment from the angel for doubting was he can't speak.
This statement of his name is John written down.
That is a total faith moment.
Like he's declaring that the angel spoke.
this is what God said not his name might be should be I would like it to be or the angel said it should be no his name is John it's such a statement of definitive fact that I think that's the thing that unlocks this punishment so he goes from disbelief to belief yeah and so in his response to
his moment of his voice is finally loosened.
Is he praises God?
And then everybody's like, what the heck's going on?
So he prophesies and he gives a prophetic word that explains what's going on.
Prophetic word starts with who Jesus is.
This is Yahweh coming to save his people.
This is the Lord visiting his people and salvation is going to be found through him as promised to the house of David.
Like this whole thing about Jesus and then shifts to John.
John's the prophet who's going to prepare the way
for the Lord so that people can receive salvation.
And then talks about God's mercy.
And the chapter ends with basically John just goes off to obscurity.
It says that he grew, but that he was in the wilderness as God was preparing him.
So.
How old was he?
I mean, that's we're probably jumping.
No, there's a bunch of details that we have.
We have no idea like how old he was when the wilderness thing started.
All we know is he's born.
There's a prophetic word at eight days or at eight days.
He's circumcised.
There's a prophetic word over his life.
And then at some point he grew up and went to the wilderness and we find him at about 30 years old preaching in the wilderness until Jesus shows up and he's like, oh, we're getting way ahead now.
Yeah, we are.
I'm like, you pretty much the podcast is over.
I mean, you broke that down.
That was Luke chapter one.
Well, the second half.
Yeah.
So I would say go watch it.
No, no, you should still go watch it.
There was so much content there, so much that I had to break down some of my my questions to extra in the segment.
But let's start with first of all, I want to say I tried to sing Mary's past.
So.
So songs in the Bible don't sing very well in English.
Okay, you got it.
You got to get them in Hebrew or you got to get them in Greek.
I was like this boy, he should have saw me.
It was horrible.
I'm like, this is worse.
And here's the thing.
So Luke writes the song in Greek.
Most likely, she's saying it in Hebrew.
Most likely, like we don't know for sure, but the way the song is structured, it's structured like a Hebrew song of praise.
So you start a Hebrew song of praise and you'll see this all throughout the Psalms.
You start off with God, you're awesome, and then here's why.
So like I'm declaring to everyone, we magnify the Lord, we rejoice in God my Savior,
for he has done, for he has done, for he has done.
So it's like we celebrate God, then we tell people why we celebrate God.
Like that's the Hebrew song of praise, like template.
I love it.
Yes.
I try singing in English.
Leave that to LaShawn.
LaShawn could like, that's why I like, and there's some songs that we sing that are straight up, it's a song.
Yeah.
But you still got to finesse the words.
Yeah, you do.
It's to make it work.
Scripture doesn't sing as well as it used to.
There's no flow.
I'll try.
Later, I want to hear your attempt.
Oh, I got to grow up.
Well, it's really cool, though, if we ever get a chance to take a team to Israel again, because it's just kind of a mess right now.
But for like a tour, one of the things that we usually do is we go to a Messianic congregation.
Oh, man.
And there are moments where they will sing in Hebrew.
And it's like, it's beautiful.
It's so awesome.
It's so cool.
Really?
Can you, you know...
Demonstrate.
I can't sing in English.
You think I can sing in the language?
I'm stuck with you.
I was trying to... Got a better chance of singing in Spanish.
And even that, you don't want to hear it.
Okay, so we started off talking about how it's important to be within community, especially when God reveals something to you.
I guess the question I have,
I don't know how to access, cause I have two questions really, but I'll start with the tougher question.
In a culture that teaches us, we should keep things to ourself when God shares it, because you don't want the haters to tie, you don't want no litches speaking over it.
Why was this, how was it something that you pulled from scriptures?
I'll say pastor Brent, and then what do you think about like hiding what the word of God that he gives you and keeping it to yourself?
Like, do you think it's,
Like what do you think about that in terms of culture?
Okay.
Yeah.
So let's start with you.
Okay.
So I get the biblical side.
Yes.
The cultural side.
Yeah.
The biblical side of the New Testament is filled with and I've, I keep saying I want to do like a bigger study on this.
Like I've teased it in a bunch of things, but maybe one day.
but the one another instructions in the New Testament, like over and over and over again.
It's like, the only way to really follow Jesus is to follow Jesus with a group of people, like, because there's so many instructions that you're supposed to love one another, bury one another's burdens, lift one another up, encourage one another, love one another, serve one another, sacrifice for one another, like, you're supposed to do these things for other people, like, you've gotta be in community.
And so when God's speaking to you, like, you absolutely need people that you can process with.
Now you don't process everything with everyone, because that's just foolishness.
But you absolutely have to have people in your life that you can go to, that you can share.
This is what I think God is saying in my life.
We had our staff small group yesterday, and one of the guys in the group just asked straight up, he's like, how do I know when it's God speaking?
He's like, well, one of the parts of that is bring that to somebody else and say, hey, I think God is saying this.
Does it match?
Does it fit with scripture?
You feel like that that could be something and like you need to have those people in your life that you can process these things with.
Yeah, that's good.
I agree.
I mean, I think that, yes, culture tells you and it is true, right?
Like to a certain extent of like, there are people who don't mean you will.
And so you have to be careful about how you share and who you share with.
And I think that's beyond spiritual.
I think that's just with
anything so I do get that side of it but because of the nature of our like faith being relational I think you have to
share with people and it has to be close people right like Mary and Elizabeth even though they're not the same age that kinship brings them closer i think it's okay to share when you have a commonality whether it's the faith thing or whatever it is with the people who are closest to you and you share in those ways i mean even thinking about like
from a prophetic side of it, you only see in part.
So what if the person that you're sharing with has a other part to it or there's a revelatory like statement that they have that will unlock the rest of the perspective that you need to carry out whatever the instruction is from God or whatever that is.
So I do think once you get around the right people, with the right mindset, the right heart posture, it should be safe to share.
And a lot of times when you do share, you get more perspective that you wouldn't have had if you didn't share.
So I agree.
Yeah.
And I would just say, you know, if that's a real danger or a real risk, you might need to just pick better people.
Like if you're not confident that the people that you've got around you are going to have your best interests at heart, like pick better people.
In the Holy Spirit, I think he does an excellent job of telling you when to be quiet.
And I have had those moments of like,
you'll get so excited about something that the God that God is sharing with you and you'll go and share and it's like, no, not yet, not like protect this, keep it close to you.
Even with Mary, she took a couple, even though she hurried there, it says like a few days, like I feel like
Even in that, like sometimes it's timing too.
Like there's a, you can hurry to something, you can hurry to share, but also you may need to take a couple days to like ponder or think about it and all of that stuff.
So yeah.
Was it an affirming moment when they met?
Is that why Mary broke out into like a prophetic zone?
Because I feel like that was after Elizabeth was like my Lord.
Oh yeah, like Elizabeth's response to Mary was like, you could call it like over the top.
Like it was like, that was probably not what Mary was expecting.
Like this elderly woman who's six months pregnant is like shouting and you're blessed and your child is blessed.
And my Lord has come to visit me.
Like the things that she's saying is like, it's probably overwhelming.
But at this point, like,
Mary's still not even sure what she experiences is real.
Like she's like, I'm a virgin.
I had a visitation.
Did I go?
Did I hallucinate?
Did I go crazy?
Like there's been no other confirmation in her life and not enough time has passed for there to be a physical sign that this is happening.
And so like the walking in the room and seeing her cousin respond the way she did was like, Oh, this is real.
Wow.
That's good.
Now that you will break out into perfect.
Oh boy.
Yeah.
Like holy cow.
I was not expected.
OK. All right.
Here we go.
OK. Why is it significant that Elizabeth recognized Jesus before he was born?
Why is it significant?
Holy spirit.
OK. Like honestly it's it's it's one of those moments where
Elizabeth declares something that no one else knew at the time, that she couldn't have known at the time.
But it starts that with filled the Holy Spirit.
So she's filled the Holy Spirit and then she declares these things.
And so for me, it's that the Holy Spirit does bring revelation into your life.
That's part of the role of the Holy Spirit.
And so it's significant because Jesus hasn't
He hasn't reached a sermon.
He hasn't turned water into wine.
He hasn't walked on water.
He hasn't raised the dead.
Like he hasn't done anything yet to declare to the world I am God.
And yet Elizabeth has this divine Holy Spirit inspired revelation.
Man, this is more than just a baby.
That's good.
One question I do have for you Ari is have you had a moment in your life where you feel like the Holy Spirit has helped into sharpening your discernment?
I feel like, yes.
Let's see, what would be a good example of that?
Storytime.
Hmm.
You can come.
We can go.
Yeah, I would have to.
You know what?
Now that I think about it, you being a guest on the show, you are a woman that have a lot of discernment.
And even the moments we've had where you was like, girl, I saw this.
And I'm like, ugh.
And then so do you feel like even in this season of your life, you feel like the Holy Spirit has given you great discernment?
Oh, yeah.
I think that this season definitely
There are some heightened senses around certain things certain situations in my life that I feel like the Lord is like pay attention to that or like do that or don't do that or say this or like do like I feel like I Have had a lot of those moments, but also they have been to help my friends and family like I
You know, when you're just listening to friends and family and you're in conversations and whatever they're going through, I feel like sometimes, especially in this season, the Lord has, like the active listening is really important because you'll hear something that someone says and it's like, wait a minute, okay, like Lord, like give me what is needed here.
And I feel like in this season, he has definitely added like some good perspective or like, hey, did you think about that?
Or like, maybe you have,
the wrong perspective on this, maybe the person actually meant this or did this.
And so it's just been really helpful.
I think overall as you get deeper with Christ, as you get deeper in your relationship, you'll start to have those moments anyway.
And the moments where things are confirmed will start to happen more and more till it kind of almost becomes a norm in a sense.
So yeah, I think that's where I am.
I was just thinking about how this whole chapter is really perfect, like you said.
And prophecy, when you think about discipleship, that's not something you always put together.
So why is it important to unpack those moments when God is speaking to you or when he's showing you something?
I know he said,
because community affirms it, but why do you feel like God, like it's not something where it's like, here's this word and I need you to just sit with this and you know what I mean?
Like why is it?
I don't know.
I guess like, how does it tell the story of, I guess, I don't know what I'm trying to say.
It's right on my side, but I don't know what I'm trying to say.
Like how is prophecy, why was it such a big part of this chapter?
I guess it's a better way to say it.
Yeah, so because it's picking up where everything left off.
So there's 400 years of silence.
And so it's starting with a reminder of prophetic words that are now being fulfilled.
And some are going to be fulfilled in the next chapter.
Some are all the way through to the very end.
You're going to see prophecy being fulfilled.
And so in this chapter, we saw prophecy from Isaiah being fulfilled, from Malachi being fulfilled.
Next week we're gonna have the birth of Jesus and even the city that I can't even call it a city It's a town.
It's like a tiny little place where he's born It's a prophetic word from the Old Testament of where the Messiah is gonna come from And so there's there's all of these little things and it's it's built around confirmation Right, so the prophetic words are given now.
We're seeing these things take place and
And so it's to help the audience, the readers, especially those who are familiar with the Old Testament to say, oh, this is why that's happening, or now this is what it looks like.
And so, yeah, I think it's super important that we start with that grounding of God said it, God's gonna do it.
Yeah.
So I guess you know what the challenge is for Luke is like, I'm looking for those applications.
So what could be some takeaways from this?
that we can really give to those listening to the message.
Like what are some applications we can pull from these passages?
I think one thing for me that I got is don't be afraid to move in faith.
Like if the Lord tells you something, don't be afraid to like say it.
with confidence because if he said it he's gonna do it and you just have to wait to you know for whenever that timing is but like don't be scared to like move and like prepare for that thing and I can even say for my like again reading it and like
just thinking about my own pregnancy recently.
I could totally see how the Lord kind of did some similar things with me.
I mean of like two years before I got pregnant, he told me you're going to have a baby in this time and you will have a girl and her name is.
And so just seeing how he obviously did it in scripture, he did it in my own life, just even with that,
I was not afraid to say to my family or to Ola, hey, we're going to have this baby.
We need to start preparing.
We need to buy a house.
We need to do these things.
And nobody was shocked when it happened because it was just like, well, you said it.
You said God told you you've been moving that way for a while.
So we're not really shocked.
Are we happy?
Are we surprised at the exact moment?
Yes, but we're not really shocked even at the gender reveal.
Nobody was actually shocked because I kept saying it's a girl like y'all don't even have to guess about this.
We don't even need the results like it's a girl like the Lord said it.
And so I think.
just again moving in faith when the Lord tells you something don't be afraid to start preparing for whatever it is and declaring it because a lot of what we say speaks to the heart posture of where we are and so like if you really believe it go ahead and say it even if it's to yourself say it say it out loud to say like the Lord is going to do this in my life whatever it is and I think
That's a good application.
That's good.
I like that one.
I'll just take people back to a few weeks ago we taught on spec.
When you're trying to get an application from Scripture, use spec.
So is there a sin to confess or avoid?
Is there a promise to claim?
Is there an example to follow?
Is there a command to follow?
Is there knowledge to gain?
And so with this text, I think, first of all, there's an example to follow.
Mary gets this revelation, this moment with an angel, and he says, Elizabeth signs, she immediately goes to hang out with Elizabeth.
And so, right there, that's an example that we should follow.
Like, process this with a mature believer.
Like, I think that was even our first, you know, application when we went through the message on Sunday.
But, like, you need to have somebody, and like, part of where we find those somebodies is within groups.
And so that was just a shameless plug for discipleship groups that you need to be in those.
And honestly, my group that meets, we got guys every week, it seems like, that are processing something that God is doing, or God is saying, or there's a challenge.
And that's the safe space for them to be able to say some things out loud, to even be able to say, look, I don't even know if this is God speaking, or if I just have weird pizza.
But this is what I think.
What do you guys think?
A big part of this first part of the text is there's an example that we should follow.
Do what Mary did.
But I think there's also we're learning about the promises, right?
Like that's what prophetic word is.
Like when God says he's going to do something, like he fulfills his word.
He keeps his promises.
He keeps his word.
And so that's just something for all of us to be able to hang on to.
That if God said he's going to do it, he's going to do it.
I thought you, I was like more.
I would keep going.
No, no, no.
So what that, there was a part that was brought out in the passage that when she said for, he has, that was a big moment and.
Yeah, that he has is really cool.
So I can't even, there's a, there's a linguistic like freight for like what tense that is.
Okay.
And I could never get it.
No, because like the, the layman's term for it is the prophetic tense.
So that's when they when they talk about that Greek in the New Testament specifically, they call it the prophetic tense because it's declaring something as if it's already done, even though it hasn't happened yet.
Wow.
So like the he has statements that she makes are actually things that Jesus is going to do right through the cross.
Yeah.
He hasn't technically even been born yet.
So in the timeline, it hasn't happened.
Yeah.
But it has happened because God declared it so.
So it's like that it's that really cool.
It's a really neat way of saying so it's a it's a completed action, but she's using it to describe an uncompleted action.
Yeah, it's one of those like wait what?
Right.
So they call it the prophetic tense.
I could see that for sure because even the part where she was saying like the generations will call me blessed it's like well
You don't technically know that, but you know that.
And we're still talking about her.
Yes.
So Ari, can you name a specific way that guy has been faithful to you in this season?
For he has.
Yes.
Um, for sure.
I think that the Lord has been faithful to me and my family.
in this season in so many ways.
For one way, my dad, at the end of 2025, he had experienced some health challenges.
And I just knew that the Lord told me like he's gonna go through some things, but he's gonna be okay.
And even with what he was going through at the time, it was just like, okay, but I'm scared.
I'm nervous, especially coming off the heels of just lost my grandmother last year.
So it was just like a really hard season.
And praise God that my dad is okay.
He actually went back to work today after two months of being on leave.
see how the Lord has in two months time how the Lord has just turned it around and did he go through some things?
Yes, but is he okay?
Absolutely and he is stronger and he is better and he is healthier and he's even more I would say like his relationship with God has been strengthened because of what the Lord has brought him through but also even with my mom even with me it's just like
We have bonded over how God has been so faithful to him.
And so for sure, I just think the Lord has been carrying our family for in this season.
That's awesome.
What about you, Passover?
Yeah, so there's definitely some things that are, I would say prophetic tents he has for our family that we're still walking through.
We're walking through some health things.
different things with the family.
But also we've also seen that he has in the non prophetic tense, but in the actual, like he actually did this already.
It's already completed stuff for the church.
Like honestly, like this whole last couple of years has just been just mind blowing for me.
And part of it is, you know, you, when you transition from a founding pastor to a new lead pastor, like,
That's usually rocky, usually see like some stagnation, some dip in attendance or even worse than that, typically is what you see.
And God just blessed it.
And then after 35 years of ministry, we decided we're going to change the name of our church.
Like that's a really risky thing.
Like we even had this, like I had this conviction.
I was like, look, even if the following Sunday we got
half the people in the room.
I'm not happy, but I'm okay with it because that means that those are the ones that want to make disciples who want to be disciples.
So it was like, we may be doing this and shrinking our church in the process, but if it gets us to a group of people that are passionate about being disciples and making disciples, I'm okay with that.
We're going to do it anyways.
It's risky, but we're going to do it anyways.
And then God blessed it.
And then we're like, okay, after 35 years of preaching topical sermons and never really doing, we're just going to walk through the whole New Testament.
We're going to start with the gospel according to Luke and we're going to take our time with it.
And people are like, you're going to be in there for how long?
I mean, we're just getting for 18 months.
Buckle up.
But here we are.
This is the end of the second week.
So we're still
really early there's there's still part of me is like okay when people are in Luke 10 are they still going to be excited but so far two weeks in like it seems like God's hand is on this thing and people are passionate and excited about getting into the Bible and yeah I mean we're essentially we've turned Sunday morning into a Bible study and that's you know that's a risky thing because you got people that are coming in that don't really know much that are looking for that man my marriage has fallen apart I need some help in my marriage and they come into a message
We've tried to talk through, okay, how do we utilize our small groups and other things to kind of shore up some of those areas that maybe aren't going to be covered in Luke for a while.
But at the end of the day, we're like, I feel like this is what God's telling us to do and we need to do it.
Again, we just see and feel like God's hands on it.
You have to order new journals again.
I do.
They're gone.
I have to order.
Yeah.
This is Luke is going to bring about a lot of orders.
Okay.
Just to keep everyone like connected to it because you said a saying on Sunday that went with the passage.
What was it?
God said so because God said so.
Are you trying to make something up?
You don't have to make something up.
I feel like I have to make something up.
We gotta make bracelets or something because God said so.
You don't have to.
It's okay.
I can just write it on my wrist.
No.
Give me a Sharpie and we'll take care of it.
Oh, you have a lot of people doing that.
I think what's cool, even like we know like faith and obedience, like they are very important.
And so even with you talking about like just everything that's going on with our church and how like you're making the moves because God said so to you and we're following with that.
I think even for the people who are looking for
or like a specific message or a specific me, if they're really paying attention, like a lot of this will apply to whatever situation you're in.
And so it's just really cool to think about that of like, okay, Lord, like no matter what the scripture, no matter what the verse is, I can find something in this and you will reveal to me what I need with this.
Yeah.
Getting to talk to people in the lobby every Sunday for the last couple of weeks has just, it's been awesome.
Just the number of people like, man, the Bible's cool.
Yes.
That's what I've been trying to say for like ever.
Yeah.
I think we're in a cool place.
So we talked a little bit about, you talked a little bit about culture and obeying God.
Um, so, and I kind of go with the, because I said so, but, but give us some insight or intake there with that passage and how that all connects with because God says.
Yeah.
So that, that's, man, I don't even know where you want to take that one.
Cause it's, it's actually, there's a lot of moments where it's a cultural thing or a worldview thing versus scripture thing.
I mean, we, we got into the worldview of, of when life begins.
because like, so John is responding to Jesus' presence with an emotion.
He's expressing joy, it says.
He's leaping in his mother's womb, and it's like, okay, but if life doesn't begin until actual birth, then how is that taking place?
And so like, and that's not the only passage.
There's other passages that talk about, I mean, life begins at conception.
But that's not a popular thing to say in culture today.
And so like, you have to wrestle with, okay?
Culture is really pushing one narrative, but scripture,
comes against culture in a lot of places.
And then it's little simple things.
I mean, the culture for Elizabeth was name this baby after his father or after a prominent family member that you wanna honor.
You don't name it a random John that came out of nowhere, right?
From the world's perspective, right?
Now we know it came from God.
Like there's a purpose to this.
And so yeah, I think there's constantly these moments in the scripture that are gonna
Challenge us and I think that's part of what's awesome about the Bible like it does challenge us and if you if you think everything you know is is solid and and You're you're good and you can just do your own thing man The Bible will come in and be like yeah, let me challenge that for a second.
Mm-hmm.
That's true
Well, I feel like I know it's probably really early to land the plane, but I think this is a good place to encourage people with this passage of scripture.
I mean, it was, it was, it was a lot.
You started off with Mary and Elizabeth.
I will say we, we are, we, as we progressed through Luke, we slowed down more and more.
It's a fast ride right now.
Yeah.
So it's a fast ride right now.
So we took chapter one and chapter two.
We split it in half, both of them.
but chapter one was 80 verses.
So it's about 40 verses per Sunday.
Luke chapter two we cut in half, but it's like 50 verses.
So cutting in half is 25 to 30 each week.
So it's getting lower.
Carlton is going to bring us chapter three and that is the exception.
We did not split chapter three, but chapter three, half of it is the genealogy of Jesus.
And I just had a feeling people weren't going to really want to sit through.
a whole message on just the genealogy.
So he's gonna weave some of it in, but after that, like chapter four, I think we split into like four chunks or three chunks.
So like there's a Sunday coming up where we're covering, I think five verses.
So we went from 40 to five.
So we're gonna slow down.
So people are like, Brent just talks too fast, it's too much stuff.
It's like, yes, I know, just bear with us.
We gotta get through this intentionally.
It'd be a lot to process because I'd be stuck on like, I'm like stuck as you know, on the first part with the prophecies and the singing.
I'm just like, okay, what else could I get from this?
And now Bren's talking about holiness and righteousness and salvation leads to service.
And you're like, wait, how do we get there?
Right.
That's a lot.
So let's encourage people with this message.
What would be your takeaway for them to chew on as we continue with Luke?
Yeah, I think for me, the thing that I want to wrestle with the most is in the second half, there's this moment where the result of your salvation is to serve God without fear in holiness and righteousness.
And it's just this idea that for some of us, salvation becomes the endpoint.
And it's like, I'm saved, so now I get to do my own thing and whatever.
But salvation is supposed to lead to service.
Like God saves you from sin, but he saves you for service.
And so how are we serving God?
And then it's not even left up to us for how we serve him.
We serve him in holiness and we serve him in righteousness.
So holiness is your identity in Christ.
Righteousness is your behavior as someone who is in Christ.
And so for all of us, regardless of how long you've been following Jesus, whether it's one day or 50 years, that righteousness piece, it's still a work in progress.
And so we need to be working on that and living in a way that honors God.
And it even says in all our days, and so the joke I made is that you need to be just as
holy and righteous on friday night as you claim to be on sunday morning because it's really easy to come to church on sunday and your sunday best and be like i'm singing the song and i'm reading i got my luke journal and i'm doing all my stuff and friday night where were you and what were you doing and so it's yeah so it's one of those where for me the conviction the the prophetic stuff was cool the the singing the song that was like oh man this is really
beautiful the way this lays out.
I love the having a four for your praise.
Like I need that as a reminder.
Actually we got home and my wife was adding things to our memorial jar when I got home.
And I was like, look at that.
So like, yes, all of that.
But at the end of the day, what do you do with it?
And that's where you have to live in service and holiness and righteousness.
That's what we do.
That's my challenge.
That was good.
For me, it's the community part.
So for sure, just having people around you that you can share in faith with whatever God is putting on your heart and that you all can be in obedience, hold each other accountable to whatever it is.
The community part is really important for me.
So I think that's the main takeaway.
Man, little pieces and chunks are just coming back to me, because now I'm thinking about the wilderness.
I'm like, we didn't talk about the wilderness.
Man, OK, so that'll be my takeaway.
And please go listen to the message, because it was it was very meaty.
Get your journal or your notebook.
Here's the best part about listening to a message after the fact.
If I talk too fast, you can stop it.
Change it to 0.75 speed or something.
Oh, you can slow it down.
You can slow it down.
And it's not the talking too fast.
It was just.
a lot to process.
So I'm like the wilderness, the obedience.
My wife got mad at me because she couldn't write everything down.
She's like, my journal, I've got place.
Oh man, figured out.
Okay, so just, you're gonna process a lot but I do like that part you pointed out about the wilderness because I feel like a lot of times that is a make you a break you season, it can be.
And it's not meant to break you, it's really meant to
get you to that next point in your life and your faith.
And so if you are currently walking in a wilderness season, just know that God is working all things together for your good.
And, you know, I would say if you've been through that season, I think you might have a couple of those seasons throughout your life.
I don't think it's one and done, but use it as a testament or a testimony to help other, encourage other people in their walk.
Cause, you know, that's,
kind of what the Bible will do for us.
And now as disciples, we can do that for others as well.
So yeah, that would be my takeaway.
So, man, we hope you enjoyed this podcast.
Go to on that message.
That's gonna be my action point.
Go back and listen to the message.
Have your journal, have your notepad.
And yeah, let us know if you have any questions you want to discuss from it that we didn't quite hit here and you want deeper revelation on and we will see you next week.